_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Radioactive decay has paced like a metronome in the background of our solar system's 4.5-billion year history. Applying principles of isotope geochemistry, I use the natural atomic clocks of radiometric systems to measure the tempos of processes in the early solar system and during Earth's glacial climates.

---
I am currently a PhD candidate in the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences at the University of California Santa Cruz, working in the [Blackburn Lab](https://ucscgeochronology.sites.ucsc.edu/). My PhD research has focused on using the radioactive isotopes of uranium and its intermediate and stable daughter products to answer questions about 1) the interplay between glaciers and their environments,  2) the timescales and processes of planetary assembly and thermal processing in the early solar system, and 3) billion-year timescales of middle crustal cooling and reheating.

---
In addition to my research interests, I am passionate about accessible education, especially via museums. Museums and exhibit spaces provide unique opportunities for poignant, immersive, and even dynamic educational experiences. Prior to beginning my graduate studies, I  worked at the Peary-MacMillan Arctic Museum (Brunswick, Maine) and volunteered at the Museum of the Rockies (Bozeman, Montana). I currently volunteer with my labmate and colleague [Gavin Piccione](https://gavinpiccione.github.io/) at the Santa Cruz Museum of Natural History, where we share our love for the Earth and rocks as the <i>Geology Gents</i>. An upcoming addition to this website will be a page dedicated to outreach and engaging Earth science in unique ways!

Commit message:

Add rockin pop-up video link

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Radioactive decay has paced like a metronome in the background of our solar system's 4.5-billion year history. Applying principles of isotope geochemistry, I use the natural atomic clocks of radiometric systems to measure the tempos of processes in the early solar system and during Earth's glacial climates.

---
I am currently a PhD candidate in the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences at the University of California Santa Cruz, working in the [Blackburn Lab](https://ucscgeochronology.sites.ucsc.edu/). My PhD research has focused on using the radioactive isotopes of uranium and its intermediate and stable daughter products to answer questions about 1) the interplay between glaciers and their environments,  2) the timescales and processes of planetary assembly and thermal processing in the early solar system, and 3) billion-year timescales of middle crustal cooling and reheating.

---
In addition to my research interests, I am passionate about accessible education, especially via museums. Museums and exhibit spaces provide unique opportunities for poignant, immersive, and even dynamic educational experiences. Prior to beginning my graduate studies, I  worked at the Peary-MacMillan Arctic Museum (Brunswick, Maine) and volunteered at the Museum of the Rockies (Bozeman, Montana). I currently volunteer with my labmate and colleague [Gavin Piccione](https://gavinpiccione.github.io/) at the Santa Cruz Museum of Natural History, where we share our love for the Earth and rocks as the <i>Geology Gents</i>. During quarantine and social distancing protocols of the COVID-19 pandemic, Gavin and I have continued our outreach with SCMNH over weekly video streams, [available here](https://www.santacruzmuseum.org/category/rockin-pop-up/)!
